---
layout: post
title:      "`First CLI Project`"
date:       2019-09-16 12:13:31 -0400
permalink:  first_cli_project
---


So this CLI project was supposed to be about creating a scraper that in the end was used to pull data from a website of my choosing and organize it in a user friendly Command Line Interface. Although the idea is very basic and simple, to someone who's only been coding for a little over a month it was a scary task.
Sarting to always make sure the set up is as near to perfect as can be. Setting up the bin folder and files with all of the necessary gems and requirements took me about a day and a half to get right, but eventually it all worked properly toguether. Although it took me a long time to get the set up done I learned a lot on why the requirements were there and really came to understand in what process the code I was building ran. 

Second place I tried to start with was the scraping of the data. That on it's own was a bit difficult, trying to inspect the website of my choosing, having only a vague understanding of what I was looking at and for. Luckily at no time was I really completely on my own while starting out this process. I for one have great cohort leads and cohortmates that are more than happy to lend some helpful guidance or advice if asked for. Not to mention the infinite resources given to me. So once I realized what part of the html file I was trying to pull from to get all 144 names and roles of each champion from league of legends I moved on to my next step. Building the cli file. 

Next step I took was trying create a command line interface. That on it's own was very interesting to build, I got to learn how start building a command line interface that a random user could use. The first thing was building dialogue in the cli file to make it feel like there was something there to respond to. Once the method with the first bit of dialogue and future method calls was set up, what was being created was becoming more visible. I learned from some of the bonus videos that it's best to take it one step at a time to really imagine what you want to build. Also to always test out the code you build even the little things, it's always best to get it working before making it look pretty. I constantly hear here in Flatiron, code is free to run so always run it and see what works and what doesn't. 

After the basic cli skeleton was ready to go it was time to complete the scraper and learn how to iterate through the data pulled so it can come out organized and readable on the cli. Again luckily there's tons of resources and even though there was tons of bugs and set backs I was able to sit and figure out what in my code was missing or what needed to be changed. I can definitely say now I am way more comfortable reading errors and understanding how to fix them now then I was just last week. Once the scraper was built and the iteration was working it was just a matter of relating the scraper file with the cli file and creating inputs and instructions for the user of the cli to use. Once that was done it was just about fixing what little bugs the proggram still had to the best of my ability and playing with my cli as much as possible to make sure it worked. Then add some color to all of it to make it more visually pleasing and set some time lags for the dialogue and data to appear to give it texture. Then that was it, my first ruby gem was created. 

Over all, it was a great experience and I know i'm still green as can be but I really feel like i'm becoming a programmer! Just knowing that I was able to build and understand how and why the program was running is such an amazing feeling. It makes me excited to see what else I will soon be able to build and one day come back to this gem and make it even more abstract then I realize possible right now. It's a lot of hard work and I was stressed through most it if i'm being honest, but I know i'm well on my way and I can't wait to see how much more I will learn and grow as a programmer!

